Boundary Data
=============

This directory contains boundary data (shapefiles) that can be used with the Boundary Service API. By default, it contains boundaries for Chicago neighborhoods, which you can delete if you're not concerned with Chicago.

To add data to the Boundary Service you will first need to add a shapefile and its related files (prj, dbf, etc.) to the this directory. See the included neighborhoods directory for an example shapefile.

Once your data is in place, you will modify definitions.py to add a declaration for your new shapefile to the SHAPEFILES dictionary. The Chicago neighborhoods example includes extensive commenting describing the various fields and how they should be populated. Note that the Boundary Service will normally be able to infer the projection of your shapefile and automatically transform it to an appropriate internal representation.

Of particular note amongst the fields are the 'ider' and 'namer' properties. These should be assigned to functions which will be passed a feature's attributes as a dictionary. 'ider' should return a unique external id for the feature. (e.g. a district id number, geographic id code or any sequential primary key) Whenever possible these ids should be stable across revisions to the dataset. 'namer' should return a canonical name for the feature, not including its kind. (e.g. "Austin" for the Austin Community Area, "Chicago" for the City of Chicago, or #42 for Police Beat #42) A number of callable classes are defined in utils.py, which should mitigate the need to write custom functions for each dataset. 

Once definitions.py has been saved the new shapefile can be loaded by running:

<pre>./manage load_shapefiles -d path/to/this/directory -o BoundaryKindWithoutWhitespace</pre>

The "-c" parameter can also be passed to clear existing boundaries of only the specified type and then load the data. Multiple boundaries can be cleared and loaded by passing a comma-separated list to "-o". To clear and reload all boundaries, run:

<pre>./manage load_shapefiles -d path/to/this/directory -c</pre>

As a matter of best practice when shapefiles have been acquired from government entities and other primary sources it is advisable not to modify them before loading them into the Boundary Service. (Thus why the Chicago neighborhoods shapefile is misspelled "Neighboorhoods".) If it is necessary to modify the data this should be noted in the 'notes' field of the shapefile's definitions.py entry.
